Creation, Push/Pull and Merging on GitHub Desktop


Step 1. Create a Repository 

A repository is usually used to organize a single project. Repositories can contain folders and files, images, videos, spreadsheets, and data sets – anything your project needs. We recommend including a README, or a file with information about your project. GitHub makes it easy to add one at the same time you create your new repository. It also offers other common options such as a license file.

Your hello-world repository can be a place where you store ideas, resources, or even share and discuss things with others.
To create a new repository:

    In the upper right corner, next to your avatar or identicon, click + 
    and then select New repository.
    Name your repository and add a description.
    Make sure your repository is public.
    Select Initialize this repository with a README.
    Click Create repository.

Step 2. Create a Branch

Branching is the way to work on different versions of a repository at one time.

By default your repository has one branch named main which is considered to be the definitive branch. We use branches to experiment and make edits before committing them to main.

When you create a branch off the main branch, you’re making a copy, or snapshot, of main as it was at that point in time. If someone else made changes to the main branch while you were working on your branch, you could pull in those updates.


Branches accomplish similar goals in GitHub repositories.

To create a new branch:

    Go to your new repository hello-world.
    Click the drop down at the top of the file list that says branch: main.
    Type a branch name, readme-edits, into the new branch text box.
    Select the blue Create branch box or hit “Enter” on your keyboard.


Now you have two branches, main and readme-edits. They look exactly the same, but not for long! Next we’ll add our changes to the new branch.

Step 3. Make and commit changes

On GitHub, saved changes are called commits. Each commit has an associated commit message, which is a description explaining why a particular change was made. Commit messages capture the history of your changes, so other contributors can understand what you’ve done and why.
Make and commit changes

    Click the README.md file.
    Click the pencil icon in the upper right corner of the file view to edit.
    In the editor, write a bit about yourself.
    Write a commit message that describes your changes.
    Click Commit changes button.

These changes will be made to just the README file on your readme-edits branch, so now this branch contains content that’s different from main.

Step 4. Open a Pull Request

Pull Requests are the heart of collaboration on GitHub. When you open a pull request, you’re proposing your changes and requesting that someone review and pull in your contribution and merge them into their branch. Pull requests show diffs, or differences, of the content from both branches. The changes, additions, and subtractions are shown in green and red.


Open a Pull Request for changes to the README

    Pull Request tab, then from the Pull Request page, click the green New pull request button.
    In the Example Comparisons box, select the branch you made, readme-edits, to compare with main (the original).
    Look over your changes in the diffs on the Compare page, make sure they’re what you want to submit.
    When you’re satisfied that these are the changes you want to submit, click the big green Create Pull Request button.
    Give your pull request a title and write a brief description of your changes.

When you’re done with your message, click Create pull request


Step 5. Merge your Pull Request

In this final step, it’s time to bring your changes together – merging your readme-edits branch into the main branch.

    Click the green Merge pull request button to merge the changes into main.
    Click Confirm merge.
    Go ahead and delete the branch, since its changes have been incorporated, with the Delete branch button in the purple box.
